Consumers aren't searching anymore. At
least not the way you think. They're
deciding. And they're doing it in the
weirdest places in the strangest ways. A
Tik Tok comment, a Reddit thread, a chat
GBT answer, a friend's Amazon review,
even a YouTube video they barely
watched. Those are the new
decision-making moments. And if you're
still optimizing for rankings, reach, or
relevance without knowing how decisions
actually happen, now you're not just
behind, you're invisible. This isn't
about doing more. It's about showing up
in the exact moment someone chooses, not
just searches. I'm Neil Patel. I run one
of the largest digital marketing
agencies in the world. In this video,
I'm going to show you what the shift
looks like, why your current strategy is
probably invisible in today's market,
and how to fix it by optimizing for
decision moments, not just keywords or
content. Let's get started.
[Music]
Most businesses are still playing the
Google game that ended 3 years ago.
They're obsessing over rankings,
tweaking metadescriptions, building
backlinks, chasing that sweet page one
spot. And look, I get it. For the
longest time, that was the game. Google
was the internet. If you weren't on
Google, you didn't exist. But here's the
problem. Even if you're winning at
Google, you're still losing customers.
Let me show you why. Google handles
about 13.7 billion searches a day.
Sounds massive, right? But that's only
27% of all search activity happening on
the internet. The other 73%, it's
scattered across Instagram, Tik Tok,
Amazon, Reddit, YouTube, Chat, GPT,
platforms that most businesses aren't
even thinking about as search engines.
So, while you're still fighting for that
number one Google ranking, your
customers are making actual buying
decisions on TikTok. They're validating
those decisions in Reddit threads.
They're asking Chat GPT for
recommendations. They're checking Amazon
reviews. And where are you in that
process? Nowhere. This is what I call
the Google trap. You're optimizing for
visibility in one place while your
customers are deciding everywhere else.
The result, your traffic might look
decent, but your conversions are flat.
Your rankings are solid, but your sales
are stagnant because you're showing up
in search, but you're missing the
decision.
So, what's changed? Why isn't
traditional SEO working the way it used
to? Because consumer behavior
fundamentally shifted and most marketers
missed it completely. People aren't
really searching anymore. Not in the old
sense. They're not typing keywords,
scanning through 10 blue links, and
carefully evaluating options. Instead,
they're making rapidfire decisions
across multiple touch points. And those
decisions happen in the weirdest places.
Let me break this down from a
neuromarketing perspective. The modern
consumer journey isn't a funnel anymore.
It's a constellation of micro decisions.
Here's what it actually looks like. What
to click that happens on Google. What to
trust? Reddit threads and reviews. What
to buy, Amazon, Tik Tok shop. What to
try, app store rating. What to think,
YouTube videos and podcasts. What to
believe? Cad GBT. Claude, other AI
models. Who to follow? Instagram and
LinkedIn. Who to site or reference? AI
pulls from everywhere. Each platform
serves a different psychological
function in the decision-making process.
And here's the kicker. These aren't
sequential steps. They're happening
simultaneously, sometimes within minutes
of each other. Someone sees your product
on Tik Tok, checks reviews on Amazon,
validates it in a Reddit thread, and
then ask Chat GBT for alternatives, then
they buy it, all without ever visiting
your website. Each platform represents a
different context. Each search represent
a different behavior. Each mention
becomes a trust signal. Each content
format becomes a lever of influence. If
you're not showing up in those moments
of microchoice, you're not in the
conversation. No matter how good your
Google rating is.
So, if the old playbook isn't working,
what's the new one? It's called Search
Everywhere Optimization, and it's
exactly what it sounds like. Instead of
optimizing for one search engine, you
optimize for every platform where
decisions get made, including Google.
Think about it this way. SEO isn't dead.
It's just gotten a lot bigger.
Traditional SEO was about getting found
on Google. Search everywhere
optimization is about getting chosen
across the entire internet. This means
designing your content, your presence,
and your brand to show up in all the
places where your customers are actually
making decisions, not just Google. This
is why we bought the app store
optimization company called Yo. You want
to go after every platform where someone
might discover you, validate you, or
choose you over a competitor. Now,
before you panic and think you need to
be posting everywhere every day, that's
not what this is about. Search
everywhere optimization isn't about
volume. It's about strategic presence.
It's about understanding that when
someone asks Chad GPT for
recommendation, your brand needs to be
in that response. When someone checks
Reddit for honest opinions, your company
needs to be mentioned. When someone
browses Amazon, your reviews need to be
visible. Because here's what most people
don't realize. These platforms don't
just influence decisions. They are the
decision. Now, this doesn't mean that
journeys still don't happen on
traditional search, like people just
going to Google. But it also means that
roughly 73% of searches are happening
outside the traditional ecosystem that
you're used to. And if you're not
optimized for that reality, you're
invisible.
[Music]
Here's where most businesses mess this
up. They try to use the same strategy
everywhere. They take their blog post,
copy and paste it to LinkedIn, post a
snippet on Instagram, maybe turn it into
a YouTube video. That's not how this
works. Each platform is essentially its
own decision engine with its own
psychology, its own algorithm, and its
own way that people make choices. Let me
give you some examples. On Tik Tok,
decisions are driven by emotions and
novelty. People don't want to think,
they want to feel. So your content needs
to be immediate, visual, and emotionally
resonate. YouTube is opposite. It's
about retention and perceived expertise.
People come here to learn and evaluate.
They want depth, authority, and proof
that you know what you're talking about.
Chat GPT, that's all about citations and
sematic clarity. AI models don't care
about flashy visuals or emotional hooks.
They want clear, factual information
from authoritative sources. Amazon is
pure social proof and trust. People
don't read your product descriptions,
they scroll straight to the reviews.
They want to know what real people
experience. Instagram is an aspirational
identity. People aren't just buying
products. They're buying into a
lifestyle, a version of themselves they
want to become. Reddit is raw
authenticity. Any hint of marketing
speak gets destroyed. People want
honest, unfiltered opinions from real
users. The point is, you can't just use
one playbook across all platforms. What
works on Tik Tok will fail on LinkedIn.
What converts on Amazon will flop on
Reddit. Each platform has its own
decision code. And you need to match
your content and presence to that code.
This is why search everywhere
optimization requires platform specific
strategies, not just platform specific
posting.
[Music]
Here's the thing that trips up most
marketers. They think visibility equals
success. They see their content getting
views, their posts getting engagement,
and maybe even some traffic to their
website, and they think they're winning.
But visibility is just the entry fee.
What actually drives decisions is
validation. Let me explain the
difference. Visibility is showing up in
search results. Validation is being
mentioned in the conversation.
Visibility is having a Tik Tok account.
Validation is having someone reference
your brand into their own Tik Tok.
Visibility is ranking on Google.
Validation is being cited by Chad GBT
when someone asks for recommendations.
See the difference? Visibility is what
you do. Validation is what others say
about what you do. And here's why this
matters more than ever. AI doesn't
scroll through search results the way
humans do. AI summarizes. and it
summarizes based on who gets mentioned
the most and trusted the fastest. If
your brand isn't part of that validation
network, if you're not being mentioned
in Reddit threads, cited in articles,
reviewed on Amazon, reference, and
podcast, then you simply don't exist in
AI's decisionmaking process. This is why
search everywhere optimization focuses
on earning trust signals across
platforms, not just creating content. In
a world where AI is increasingly making
recommendations for people, being
trustworthy isn't just good business.
It's the only way to stay visible.
Okay, so by now you might be thinking,
Neil, this sounds overwhelming. Do I
really need to be active on every single
platform? The answer is no. And that's
the beauty of search everywhere
optimization. You don't need to be
everywhere. You just need to be trusted
somewhere that matters. Let me give you
a framework for this. It's called rice
and it's how we prioritize which
platforms to focus on. R is for reach.
How many people search on that platform
daily? I is for impact. How much
business impact could this have for you?
C is for confidence. How confident are
you that you can succeed here? E is for
ease. How easy is it for you to execute?
You can score each from 1 to 10.
multiply by the reach number and that
tells you where to start. For most
businesses that's going to be two to
three platforms maximum, not 10. And
then eventually you can add in more into
the fold. Maybe you focus on getting
cited by Chad GPT and mentioned in
Reddit threads. Maybe it's dominating
Amazon reviews and YouTube search. Maybe
it's becoming the go-to expert that
podcast reference. The goal isn't
omniresence, it's strategic presence.
Because here is what happens when you
nail this. Your influence compounds
across platforms automatically. When
you're mentioned in a popular Reddit
thread, that gets indexed by Google.
When you're cited by Chad GPT, that
reinforces your authority everywhere
else. When you dominate Amazon reviews,
that influences buying decisions that
started on Tik Tok. It's not about being
on every platform. It's about being
woven into the fabric of how decisions
get made in your industry. Once you're
part of that cross-platform trust
network, search everywhere optimization
starts working for you instead of you
working for it. The truth of the matter
is your competitors are stuck in the
Google trap. They're still fighting
yesterday's work. And in reality, most
marketing teams are barely keeping up
with Google's algorithm updates, let
alone optimizing for Tik Tok and Chad
GPT and Reddit all at once. Which means
right now, today, you have a massive
opportunity to get ahead by playing the
new game while everyone else is still
learning the old rules. Start with one
platform outside of Google. Pick the one
where your customers are most likely to
validate their decisions. Then focus on
earning trust there before expanding
anywhere else. And if you want to go
deeper in how AI and LM optimization
work, because that's honestly where the
biggest opportunity is, I just released
a video on how to train AI models to
choose your brand over your competitors.